Amov was one ol the five ports open to foreign trade before the ratification of the
Treaty of Tientsin. It is situated upon the island of Haimun, at the mouth of the
Dragon River, in lat. 24 deg. 40 min. N. and long. 118 deg. E. It was the scene of
trade with Western nations at a very early date. The Portuguese went there in 1544,
but in consequence of their cruelty towards the natives, the Chinese authorities forcibly
expelled them and burned thirteen of their vessels. The English had commercial
dealings there up to 1730, when the Chinese Government issued an edict prohibiting
trade with ¡oreigners at all ports except Canton. They made an exception as regards
Spanish ships, which were allowed to trade at Amoy. The vessels of other nationalities, however, continued to visit the place, and did so till the city was captured in
1841. The Treaty of Nanking was signed soon afterwards, and foreigners have sinco
been allowed to live there in peace and security.
In describing Amoy, Dr. Williams says:—“ The island (upon which Amoy is
built) is about forty miles in circumference, and contains scores of large villages
besides the city. The scenery within the bay is picturesque, caused paitly by the
numerous islands which define it, surmounted by pagodas or temples, and partly by
the high barren bills behind the city. There is an outer and an inner city, as one
approaches it seaward, divided by a high ridge o( rocky hills having a fortified wall
running along the top. A paved road connects the two. The entire circuit of the
city and suburbs is about eight miles, containing a population ol 300,000, while that
of the island is estimated at 100,000 more. The harbour is one of the best on the
coast; there is good holding ground in the outer harbour, and vessels can anchor in
the inner, within a short distance of the beach, and be perf* ctly secure ; the tide rises
and tails from fourteen to sixteen feet. The western side of the harbour, here from
six hundred and seventy-five to eight hundred and forty yards wide, is formed by the
island ol'Kular.gsu. It is a picturesque little spot and maintains a rural population of
3,500 people. Eastward of Amoy is the island of Quemoy or Kirunun (Golden Harbour), presenting a striking contrast in the low foreground on its south shore to the
high land on Amoy.”
There is little to be said about the city. It ranks as a third class city in China,
but it bears no comparison to Canton in wealth or general appearance. It is considered, even for China, to he very dirty, and its inhabitants are unusually squalid
in their habits. There are several places of interest to foreigners in the vicinity,
and excursions can ho made to Chang-chow-fu, the chief city of the department of that
name, and situated about 35 miles from Amoy. The island of Kulangsu is about a
third of a mile from Amoy, and the residences of nearly all the foreigners are to be
found there, although most of the foreign business is transacted on the Amoy side.
There are three granite docks at Amoy, the largest being 310 feet by 60 feet; they are
owned and managed by foreigners. A small shipping sheet called the Amoy Gazette
is published daily. Tlio population of Amoy is estimated at 95,GOO. The foreign
residents number about 280.
There has always been a comparatively good trade done at Amoy. In 1864 the
rebels captured Chang-chow-fu, and the commerce of the port was greatly interfered
with. There is frequent and pretty regular steamer communication with Hongkong,
Swatow, and Foochow. Direct communication with Manila and the Straits Settlements is also maintained. The total export of Tea for 1883 was 149,935 piculs, and
of Sugar for the same period 201,716 piculs. The net importation of Opium for 1883
was 8,556 piculs as compared with 8,762 piculs in 1882. The total value , of the
foreign trade of the port for 1883 was Tie. 10,332,292, against Tls. 11,251,035 in 1882.
