This state occupies the southern portion of the Malayan Peninsula, and has an area
of about 9,000 square miles. The state is ruled by a Sultan, who is independent, but
under the protection of the British Government so far as external policy is concerned.
The present Sultan, Ibrahim, was born in 1873, and succeeded his father, the late
Sultan Abubakar, in 1895, being crowned on the 2nd November of that year. The
country has made great progress in material prosperity, and its orderly condition has
attracted a good deal of European capital, invested in planting enterprises.
The capital is the town of Johore Bharu, or new Johore, as distinguished from
Johore Lama, or old Johore, the former seat of the sultans of Johore, which was
situated a few miles up the wide estuary of the Johore river. The new town is a
flourishing little place on the nearest point of the mainland to Singapore island, and
lying about 14 miles to the north-east of Singapore city, in 1° 26' N. It contains
some 20,000 inhabitants, mostly Chinese. Amongst the Government buildings are the
Istana, court and police stations, barracks, gaol, hospital, market, railwaystation
and a mosque. A steam saw-mill, owned by Chinese, does a good business. A
plentful supply of water, by means of pipes from a stream in the hills about 12 1/2 miles
distant, has been provided since March, 1890. Good roads are being made, and, to
meet the requirements of the Padang district, a light railway was completed during
1890 as far as Parit Jawa, a distance of eight miles.
The population of the state is remarkable for containing a larger number of Chinese
than of Malays. The exact figures have not been ascertained, but probably come to
200,000, viz., Malays, 35,000, Chinese 150,000, and Javanese 15,000. More than half are
found within 15 miles of the Singapore Straits. The Chinese are chiefly found as
cultivators of gambier and pepper, and are spread over about this range of country in
the extreme southern end of the peninsula, nearest to Singapore.
European pioneers have, in the last few years, made some experiments in planting,
on a large scale, sago, tobacco, coffee, tea, and cocoa. These have been grown in five
different districts—Batu Rabat, Pulau Kokob, Panti, Johore Bharu, and Pengerang ;
but it is uncertain how many of them can be considered established industries.
At the present time the principal exports of Johore are the carefully cultivated
gambier, pepper, and sago, and the natural products of timber, rattans and damar.
For almost all such produce Singapore is the port of shipment.
The only mineral in which the country is really rich is iron. It is nowhere worked
but is found almost everywhere. Deposits of tin are known in several places and
gold in one or two spots. A little tin is worked at Seluang, but no considerable
mining is actually carried on, unless the islands of the Carimons be included. Though
now politically separated from Johore these islands are geologically part of it, and were
formerly a dependency of the kingdom.
Coaches and steam-launches run daily to Singapore, whence letters and passengers
find easy access to all other ports. A telegraph line has been erected between Johore
Bharu and Singapore, and a railway lias been constructed across the latter island.