Macao is situated in 22 deg. 11 min. 30 sec. N. latitude, and 113 deg. 32 min.
30 sec. E. longitude, on a rocky peninsula, renowned, long before the Portuguese
settled on it, for its safe harbour for junks and small vess 's. The Portuguese, who
had already settled on the island of Lampacao, and frequented for trading purposes
Chin-chew, Lianpo, Tamao, and San-choan (St. John’s island, where St. Francis Xavier
died) first took up their residence at Macao in 1557. Shortly after their arrival pirates
and adventurers from the neighbouring islands commenced to i 'est them. The
Chinese authorities were powerless to cope with these marauders, who went so far as
to blockade the port of Canton. The Portuguese manned and armed a few vessels
and succeeded in raising the blockade of Canton and clearing the seas. The town of
Macao soon afterwards began to rise, and during the eighteenth century trade
flourished wonderfully, the difficulty of residence at Canton greatly contributing
towards it. The East India Company and the Dutch Company had establishments
in Macao.
Historians are divided in opinion as to whether the possession of Macao by the
Portuguese is due to Imperial bounty or to right of conquest. There can be no
doubt, however, that it was held at a rental of 500 taels a year until Governor Ferreira
do Amaral in 1848 refused to pay it any longer and forcibly drove out the Hoppo or
Chinese Custom-house, and with it every vestige of Chinese authority. This bold
stroke cost him his life in August, 1849, for he was waylaid and barbarously murdered near the Barrier of Porta do Cerco and his head was taken to Canton. On
the Chinese troops at the Barrier showing fight and massing in great numbers, the
Portuguese troops gallantly advanced, took the fort of Passaleao, and drove the
Chinese from their positions.
The settlement is separated from the large island of Heang-shan by a wall built
across the neck of land from shore to shore. Two principal ranges of hills, one running
from south to north, the other from east to west, may be considered as forming an
angle, the base of which leans upon the river or anchoring place. The public and
private buildings, a cathedral, and several churches, are raised on the declivities, skirts,
and heights of hillocks. On the lofty mount eastward, called Charil, is a fort, enclosing
the hermitage of Na. Sra. de Guia, and westward is Nillau, on the top of which stands
the hermitage of Ha. Sra. de Penha; entering a wide semi-circular bay, which faces
the east, on the right hand stands the fort San Francisco; and on the left, that of
Na. Sra. de Bom Parto. Seen from the roads or from any of the forts crowning the
several hillocks, Macao is extremely picturesque. The public and private buildings
arc gaily painted and the streets kept very clean.
Since the cession of the island of Hongkong to the British, the trade of Macao
has decreased considerably, and the coolie trade gave it an unenviable notoriety.
This traffic, pregnant with abuses, was happily abolished in 1874. Tea continues to
be an article of export, showing the value of from $700,000 to $800,000 a year.
Essential oils are also exported to some extent. There is likewise some trade in
opium. Silk filature and other factories have also lately been established.
The terrific typhoon of the 23rd September, 1874, which swept across Hongkong
and the Southern Coast of China with such force, laid a considerable part of Macao
in ruins. During the full violence of the wind, and fearful rise of the tide, a fire took
place which consumed the best houses in the parish of Santo Antonio, the ruins of
many of these buildings still marking the site of the disaster. With its trade gone
and consequent departure of many of its residents, the activity of the place is a
thing of the past. Owing to its pleasant climate and the quietude always prevailing,
Macao has become the refuge of invalids and busy workers from Hongkong and
other neighbouring ports.
In the town there are several places of interest apart from the Fan-tan or gambling saloons. The gardens and Grotto of Camoens, once the resort of the celebrated
Portuguese Poet Camoens, are worth seeing, as also the noble facade of the ancient
Jesuit church of San Paulo, burnt in 1835. Pleasant excursions can be made to the
Hot Springs of Yo-mak, about sixteen miles from Macao, easily reached in about
three and a-half hours by steam launch. In winter snipe are plentiful in tho
neighbouring paddy fields and afford good sport.
The Hongkong, Canton, and Macao Steamboat Company runs a daily steamer
(Sundays excepted) between Macao and Hongkong, leaving the former port at 8
o’clock a.m. and Hongkong at 2p.m. To Canton there is a steamer on every
alternate day, Sundays excepted. The distance from Macao to Hongkong is 4 0 |
miles, and to Canton 88 miles. Macao is now connected with Hongkong by telegraph,
the cable being opened for traffic on tho 9th July, 1884. The population of Macao,
according to returns made in 1879, was — Chinese, 63,532; Portuguese, 4,476; other
nationalities, 78; or a total of 68,086.