Nagasaki is a city of great antiquity, and in the early days of European intercourse with the Far East was the most important seat of the foreign trade with
Japan. It is admirably situated on the south-western coast of the Island of Iviushiu.
A melancholy interest attaches to the neighbourhood as the scene of the extinction of
Christianity in the empire and the extermination of the professors of that religion
in 1037. At the entrance to the harbour lies the celebrated island of Pappenberg,
where thousands of Christians are said to have been thrown over the high clifl' rather
than go through the form of trampling on the cross. Not far from Nagasaki is also the
village of Mogi, where 37,000 Christians suffered death in defending themselves
against the forces sent to subdue them. When the Christian religion was crushed
and the foreigners expelled, to the Dutch alone was extended the privilege of
trading with Japan, and they were confined to a small plot of ground at Nagasaki
called Deshima. By the Treaty of 1838, Nagasaki was one of the ports opened to
British trade on the 1st July in the following year.
On entering the harbour of Nagasaki no stranger can fail to be struck with the
admirable situation of the town and the beautiful panorama of hilly scenery opened to
his view. The harbour is a landlocked inlet deeply indented with small bays, about
three miles long with a width varying from lialf-a-inile to a mile. A reclamation
scheme was commenced in October 1897. 147 acres have been reclaimed, and retaining walls measuring nearly five miles in length has been built in front
of what were formerly the foreign concessions at Deshima and Megasaki. Simultaneously, the harbour has been deepened. The cost of the work was four
millions yen. The town is on the eastern side of the harbour, and is about
two miles long by about three-quarters of a mile in extreme width. The
foreign quarter adjoins tin; town on the south side. The chief mercantile houses
are situated on the bund facing the harbour, behind which are a few streets
running parallel with it, and there are a number of private residences on the hill-side.
There are English Protestant and Roman Catholic churches, two clubs, and a Masonic
Lodge. The principal hotel is the Nagasaki Hotel, opened in 1898, a three-storeyed
brick building situated on the Bund. There are several other hotels, of which
the largest are the Hotel de France, Japan Hotel, Belle Vue Hotel, the Cliff House
and the Hotel de Japan. The Mitsu Bishi Company own two docks in Nagasaki, the
largest admitting vessels 500 feet in length on a draught of 20 feet. A new dock is
in course of construction which will be the largest in the Far East. It will have a
length of 714 feet on the keel blocks and a depth of water at ordinary springtides
of 34 ft. 0 in. As a ship-building centre the place is rapidly developing, and since
1889 eight large ocean-going vessels, of between 0,000 and 7000 tons, have been
launched, having been built there for the Nippon Yusen Kaisha. The waterworks,
owing to the growth of the town, were found to be insufficient for its wants,
and a large extension of the works was completed in March last. The reservoirs
holds 405,240,000 gallons, and there are three filter beds and a service reservoir.
The Sanyo Bailway is now completed between Shimonoseki and Yatsushiro, in Hyogo
province. Connection is made at Moji (across the narrow strait) with the lviushiu line
to Nagasaki, so that it is possible, with a brief sea passage of ten minutes between
Moji and Shimonoseki, to travel by rail to Kobe and thence to Tokyo. The climate in
Nagasaki is mild and salubrious, and there are several very popular health resorts in
the neighbourhood, the most famous being Mount Unzen.
In 1903 the imports were valued at Yen 12,867,380, a substantial increase of Yen
3,541,549 as compared with the figures for 1902, while exports remained about the same,
the value being Yen 4,956,980.
Though the foreign trade has fallen off considerably, the population of the port has
increased greatly. In September 1903 it was returned, as 152,727, nearly double what
it was ten years'ago. The foreign population, exclusive of Chinese, was 481 including
91 British, 83 French, 37 German, 49 Russian, and 102 American. An English newspaper, entitled the Nagasaki Press, is published daily ; a monthly magazine is
published from the same Office, entitled Cherry Blossoms: The Nagasaki Press
Monthly.