(The value of the dollar is 2s. 4d.) (A pikul is 133 1/2 pounds av.)

Geography, including Climate and History
The State of Negri Sembilan, the smallest of the Federated Malay States, lies on the
West Coast of the Malay Peninsula to the south of the States of Selangor and Pahang.
It is in fact a federation of "Nine States", consisting of the four major States of Sungei
Ujong, Jelebu, Johol and Rembau, and the five minor States of Ulu Muar, Jempul,
Terachi, Gunong Pasir and Inas. Sungei Ujong is mentioned in a Javanese poem in
A.D., as being subject to the Javanese Empire of Majapahit. In the 15th century
it was ruled by Chiefs of the old kingdom of Malacca. Most of the Malay inhabitants
of the States are descended from immigrants from Menangkabau in Sumatra, and have
an interesting exogamous, tribal and matriarchal social organisation.
This immigration appears to have begun in the 16th century. The original
group seems to have consisted of Sungei Ujong, Klang (now in Selangor), Jelebu,
Kembau, Nailing (now in Malacca), Segamat (now in Johore), Pasir Besar (now in
Johore, its place having been taken by Johol), Johol, (now Inas) and Ulu Pahang (now
partly in the Temerloh District of Pahang). After the capture of Malacca from the
Portuguese by the Dutch and Johore Malays in 64 A.D., Johore took a leading part
in Negri Sembilan politics until 1773 A.D., when the Undang or Chiefs of the present
four major States invited a Sumatra prince Raja Melewar, ancestor of the present
Yang Di-pertuan Besar to preside over the federation.
In 1874 the Dato' Klana, Undang of Sungei Ujong, the most im portant of the nine
States invited the assistance of the British Government to maintain his rule, and a
British Resident was appointed.
In 1883, Jelebu applied for a British Officer, and Rembau agreed to refer all its
disputes to the British Government, and in 1887 accepted a British Adviser. In 1889,
the Yang Di-pertuan of Sri Menanti who no longer effectively presided over the whole
of Negri Sembilan, the Rulers of Tampin (a smal] principality which had come into
existence to the east of Rernbau) and Rembau asked for a Resident and agreed to a
confederation known as “The Old Negri Sembilan”. In 1895, the Resident of this confederation 
took charge of Sungei Ujong and of Jelebu, and the modern Negri Sembilan 
was constituted. Finally in 1898, the Yang Di-pertuan of Sri Menanti was elected
titular Ruler of the whole State.
The area of the State is approximately 2,550 square miles. It is bordered on the
south by Malacca and Johore, on the north by Selangor, on the east by Pahang, and on
the west by the Straits of Malacca.
The Gunong Hantu which is on the Pahang border is the highest mountain,
reaching 4,799 feet, while the highest mountain with in the border is Telepak Burek
(3,915 feet).
There are no large rivers, and the State does not suffer from disastrous floods
which sometimes cause such great loss in the larger river valleys of Malaya.
The climate is hot, moist and equable. The shade temperature has but a small
annual range, and averages 81°f. It seldom rises above 92° or falls below 68°.
The average monbhly rainfall throughout the year was 5.84 inches, the highest
recorded being 15.73 inches at Port Dickson in August and the lowest .54 inch at
Mantin in February.

Government
The supreme authority in the State is vested in the Yang Di-pertuan Besar and
the Udang in Council.
The Council of the Yang Di-pertuan Besar and Undang which consisted of His
Highness the Yang Di-pertuan Besar as President, the British Resident, the four
Undang, or Ruling Chiefs of the four major divisions of Negri Sembilan, and the
Tengku Besar of Sri Menanti formed the Upper Chamber. The Lower Chamber, or
State Council, consisted of the British Resident as president, and eight Official, and
seven Unofficial Members. Legislation is introduced into the State Council and if
passed is submitted to His Highness and the Undang for confirmation or amendment,
and assent is finally given by His Highness and the Undang.
Matters which concern only the Muhammadan religion or Malay custom are dealt
with by the Upper Chamber and that Chamber can legislate on such matters by means
of Orders in Council. The Upper Chamber also exercises the statutory executive
powers vested in the former State Council.
For the purpose of the local government, the State is divided into five administrative 
districts, namely, Seremban, Kuala Pilah, Tampin, Jelebu and Port Dickson, in
charge of officers responsible to the Resident. There are State Heads of Departments
in charge of the Public Works, Medical, Police, Mines, Surveys, Agricultural and Forest
Departments in the State.
The principal towns and villages in each district are for local Government purposes
under the charge of Sanitary Boards over which the officer in charge of the
district presides. The Boards include unofficial members nominated by the Resident.
The work of these Boards is regulated by the Sanitary Boards Enactment Cap 137.

Population
The estimated population is 281,089.

Railways
The State is covered by the F.M.S. Railways with a total length of lines amounting
to about 130 miles and 58 chains.

Roads
The total length of metal roads at the end of the year was 570 miles 15.75
chains of which 469 miles were asphalted.

Shipping
There are two small ports in the state, Port Dickson, and Pengkalan Kempas on
the estuary of the Linggi River on atributary of which Seremban stands. 614 steam
vessels entered and cleared the ports with a total tonnage of 78,217.

Revenue
The revenue for 1938 was $8,965,407 and the expenditure was §13,882,431. Imports
in 1938 were valued at $8,553,426 and exports at $21,910,712.
