The Settlement of Malacca excites more interest from a historical point of view than
either of its sister towns. Commercially, it fell completely to the rear after the
establishment of Penang and Singapore, but the advent of the rubber industry in 1906
converted the Settlement into a flourishing agricultural province. Originally settled by the Portuguese in 1511, it was for many years the one foreign entrepôt in
the East, and the fact that it has given its name to the Peninsula and that it was
the cradle of Anglo-Chinese study attest its former importance. Its area is embraced
by boundaries some 42 miles in length, with a breadth of from eight to 25 miles. It is
governed by a Resident Councillor in subordination to Singapore.
The geological formation of the territory of Malacca consists chiefly of granite rock,
overlaid in several places by the red cellular clay iron-stone called by geologists laterits.
Many of the low plains are alluvial, the soil composed of decayed vegetable mould
interlaced with sand. The metallic ores are iron and a little tin. The surface generally
is undulating, consisting of low round ridges and narrow valleys, the only mountain
of considerable elevation being the Ophir of the Portuguese, which is just over the
border in Johore territory, 4,187 feet above the level of the sea. It is called by the
Malays "Gunong Ledang."
The mineral products of Malacca were at one time looked upon as offering valuable
prospects. Gold to the extent of 1,500 ounces yearly was obtained in 1857-8, just outside
the confines of the present territory, but the yield decreased to such an extent that
it is no longer worked. Tin, about the same period, assumed considerable importance.
The first mines were opened in 1793, but no great enterprise was displayed until 1848.
when some 5,000 cwt. was the annual product. This increased until 1858, and a large
number of Chinese were employed in the industry. The superior yield of the Native
States, however, combined with the exhaustion of the surface workings, resulted in
mining enterprise in Malacca being virtually abandoned. A little tin mining still
goes on in the Jasin district, and gold may possibly exist in very small quantities.
The climate of Malacca as to temperature is such as might be expected in a country
not much more than 100 miles from the equator, lying along the sea shore — hot
and moist. The thermometer in the shade ranges from 72° to 88° Fahrenheit,
seldom being so low as the first of these, and not often higher than the latter.
The range of the barometer is only from 29.8 to 30.3 inches. Notwithstanding
constant heat, much moisture, and many swamps, the town at least is remarkable for
its salubrity, and, with the exception of the early period of its occupation by the
Portuguese, has always enjoyed this reputation.
Malacca offers numerous attractions to the ornithologist and entomologist, but it is
less rich in mammals than many other tropical districts. Nine species of quadrumana,
the tiger, black leopard, wild cat, several species of viverrida (such as the musang and
binturong), the elephant, one-horned rhinoceros, tapir, six species of deer, and two of
the wild ox comprise a nearly complete list and, no doubt, at one time could be found,
but no rhinoceros or elephant has been seen for many years, and wild oxen have
not been heard of for over 30 years. Fair sport can be obtained by those
fond of shooting, from tiger to snipe. It is noteworthy that the existence of the tapir
was unknown until 1816, although European intercourse dates back to some three
centuries before. Tigers in the early days of Portuguese occupation were so plentiful
that the want of inhabitants was seriously attributed to this cause. As with the birds
and insects, so with the reptiles. The snakes, lizards, and crocodiles are, as a rule,
those of the peninsula generally, the birds alone presenting a rather larger variety than
those of other districts. Nor does the vegetation present any exclusive features, being
that of the surrounding States. The coastline is poor in shells, and the absence of
limestone accounts for the few species of land shells found with in the district.
Beyond its interest to the sportsman or naturalist, Malacca possesses no attractions except 
to those who like to visit scenes famous in the annals of discovery for
the bloody fights they have witnessed between the natives and the European nations
who contended for their possession. Its population in 191 was estimated at 186,711.
There are some 460 European residents in the Settlement, of whom at least three-quarters are planters.
The trade is largely with Singapore and the Federated Malay States, but rubber
is shipped fortnightly by Japanese mail steamers to Europe. The cultivation of
tapioca was formerly the principal industry, but rubber is now extensively planted,
several large companies having taken over a number of small estates. The cultivation 
of tapioca and gambier is declining rapidly in favour of coconuts and rubber,
there being 200,000 acres under rubber and 48,133 acres growing coconuts, pineapple
and other fruits. The total value of foreign imports and exports of Malacca
for the year 1937 were $6,364,850 & $2,158,012 respectively.
