The city of Bangkok is situated on both sides of the Menam, about thirty
miles from where this magnificent stream empties itself into the Gulf. On the east
bank of the river are the palaces of the two Kings, the foreign hongs, the Consulates,
tho principal rice mills, and most of the Public Offices. The left is principally
occupied by the Chinese and Mahomedan residents, though the Foreign Office and
the Yamen of the Prime Minister are situated on canals leading from it. The bulk
of the business is, however, transacted on the east. Here a very fair road, the
Chawen Krung, extends from the palace walls to Paklat, and a telegraph line connects tho Light-house at the Bar beyond the mouth of the river with the business
portion of the city. Bangkok is now connected, through Saigon, with the rest of the
world by wire, and a line to British Burmah has since been completed. The principal
trade of Bangkok, and the foundation on which not only its prosperity but its actual
existence mainly rests, is rice. This article is drawn in immense quantities, not
only from the innumerable fields which line the fertile valley of the Menam, but
from the adjacent rivers which flow into the Gulf from the enormous watershed
of the mountain crescent which fiinges the northern extremi' jrof the kingdom. The outturn of this grain infavourableyears is scarcely to be calculated. It not only furnishes support to the native popula’i -n of Siam and the Peninsula, but supplies China, Manila, the
Straits, and even Java and Sumatra. There is also a large and flourishing trade in
teak wood and ivory, with very many ther miu r articles of native produce which
are exported to China and the Si raits. The steamers of the Scott:sh Oiiental St- amship Co. keep up regular communicaton with Hongkong, (occasionally leaving and
returning via Swatow and the Straits Settlements), lesides special boats only running
during tho -ice season; while another line of steam rs c. nnect the kingdom with the
Straits Settlements. These steameis run at stated intervals all the year
round, and are only removed from the line for repairs or in case o! any sudden
emergency. The sailing craft of every flag, rig, and denomination were innumerable,
but are now much reduced. Of public ins i utions for fo-eign use, Bangkok can only
boast an Episcopal Chapel aud a Protestant Cemetery. There is al-o a Ladies’ Library, in . 1! ur.shing condition. Two Hotels are now the only buildings de.oted to
amusement and refreshment. The native palaces, temples, and public buildings are
magnificent and on a large scale. The archit ecture is of a kind peculiar to the country,
and there is more of novelty and interest to he witnessed by passing travellers :n B r. gkok in a few hours than cun he found in China in manv weeks. Th- re are twonewspapeis
published in the city, one in the English language and one in the native tongue. T' e
first is a weekly, conducted by a missionary. The native journal is also a weekly, and
is norelv a te-priut of the English journal. The population of Bangkok is estimated
at 050,000.
Oho imports during the year 1883, as reported by the Cost- m House, amounted
to §5,167,452 as compared with $7,104,361 in 18 2, and $6,279,484 in 1881; the
exports to $9,207,769 as compared with $9,702.778 in 1882, and $9,865,956 in 1881 ;
but the actual amount of both was probably in excess of this value. The principal
imports were piece goods and opium, the principal export rice.
Tonnage cleared at the Custom House during 1882:—British 120,652 tons; all
other nationalities, 69,786 tons; total, 190,438 tons.
