Saigon, tho capital of French Cochin China, is situated on the Saigon river, a
branch of the Donnai, in latitude 10 deg. 50 min. N., and longitude 101 deg. 22
min. E. Saigon was conquered by the Franco-Spanish fleet on the 17th February,
1859, but Lower Cochin-China, (comprising the provinces of G-iadinh, Bienhoa, and
Mytlio, and the Islands of Palo Condor), was not definitely occupied until 1862,
when it was formally surrendered by treaty; in 1867, three more provinces were
conquered by the French and added to their possessions, viz., Chandoc, Hatien, and
Vinhlong. The actual boundaries of French Cochin-China now are: on the North
the kingdoms of Annam and Cambodia, ou the East and South, the China Sea, on
the West the Gulf of Siam and the kingdom of Cambodia.
French Cochin-China is divided into seven large provinces, comprising in all
twenty Inspections. Besides Saigon, which is the capital of Cochin-China and
at the same time of the province of Giadinh, the other chief towns bear the names of
their respective provinces, Bienhoa, Mytho, Chandoc, and Hatien. The population
amounts to 1,500,000 inhabitants. The European population, exclusive of the
official element, is yery small. The country resembles a vast plain with small
hills on the West and some mountains on the East and North; the three highest
are Batlen 88-1 metres, Baria 493 metres, and the Moi mountains 550 and 600
metres in height. The principal rivers are the two Yaico, the Saigon River, and the
Donnai river. The lower parts of French Cochin-China are wrinkled with small
creeks or arroyos, giving easy and rapid communication to all parts of the country.
Of late several canals have been opened. The magnificent river Meikong, which
descends from the Thibetan mountains, after running through different territories,
crosses Cambodia, enters the lower provinces of French Cochin-China by two branches,
and empties itself into the China Sea by five large outlets called respectively Cua
Tieu, Cua Balai, Cua Cochien, Cua Dinh-an, and Cua Batac.
The principal product of French Cochin-China is rice. It is planted in almost
every province except some of tho northern districts. In 1883 the export of this grain
reached 8,635,200 piculs, equal to 514,000 tons, which is the largest figure ever reached
and about 2,600,000 piculs over the export of the previoxis year. Ml er this important
grain the principal products are:—sugar cane, mulberry tree, popper, betel-nut, cotton,
tobacco, and maize; china grass, sesamun, palma-christi, indigo, saffron, gum-lac, sapan
(dye-wood), and cinchona also exist pretty large quantities, with several other minor
productions. The principal salt pits are iu the province of Baria. The forests contain
large quantities of fine timber and abound with game of nearly every description,
amongst which may be named elephants, rhinoceros, tigers, deer, wild boars, and
elands, while amongst the feathered game the peacock, partridge, snipe, woodcock,
jungle fowl or wildcock, pheasant, Ac., may be mentioned. The rivers and creeks
swarm with fish of every description, and alligators abound in some.
In the chief towns of each province there is a citadel sufficiently garrisoned, and
numerous military posts in the interior maintain and watch over the security of the
inhabitants. The Annamese are a race devoted principally to agriculture; they are
not so industrious as the Chinese and are indifferent traders. The Chinese have the
largest proportion of the trade in their hands. The budget of the colony shows a
healthy expansion, and there is a substantial reserve fund in the treasury. The two
principal sources of revenue are opium, spirits, tonnage dues, export duty on rice,
capitation tax, Ac.
The Government of French Cochin-China is administered by a civil Governor
appointed from Paris, who is assisted by a Privy Council composed of all the Heads
of Departments as official members and two unofficial members. The Colonial
Council, some of the members of which are elected by the residents, consists of sixteen
members, four of whom are natives. In the various arrondissements, moreover,
councils have lately been introduced composed entirely of natives. The towns of
Saigon and Cholon are ruled by Municipal Councils, the members of which bodies
are partly French and partly native. The Chamber of Commerce at Saigon is also
an official body elected by the merchants and traders, and is composed of French,
foreigners, and Chinese.
Saigon is situated about 40 miles from Cape St. James and is accessible to the
largest vessels. Since its occupation by the French the climate has undergone a
very favourable change, owing to different sanitary works in the town, such as
drains, the filling up of pools, marshes, &c. The town presents a fine appearance,
the roads and thoroughfares b&ing broad and regular. Amongst the public buildings
Government House is the most remarkable; several millions of francs have been
spent upon its construction and decoration. The other prominent public buildings
are the new “ Direction de l’lnterieur,” the Treasury, the Post Office, the Land Office,
Pul.lie Works Department, the Schools, and the Supreme Court. The Military
Hospital is a fine and handsome building, as are also the Arsenal, Barracks, and
Artillery pare. A stately gothic Cathedral of large proportions, was opened on the
11th April, 1881. Saigon has two public gardens, the “ Jardin de la Ville,” which
is maintained at the expense of the municipality, and the Botanical Garden. There
are several rice-mills in Saigon and Cholon. There are also steam brick-yards
in each town. Cholon is the granary of the colony, and its commercial activity
is enormous. There is an iron floating dock, and a new one was completed at the
Arsenal in August, 1881, but sunk on the 1st September following while being
lowered to take in the transport Mytho. The population of Saigon may be estimated
at about 40,000 inhabitants, chiefly Annamese and Chinese. The town of Cholon,
principally inhabited by Chinese traders, is four miles distant from Saigon, and its
population may be set down at 70,000. It is connected with Saigon by a steam
tramway.
The M. M. steamers call twice a month at Saigon on their homeward and
outward trips. Easy communication is afforded with the principal towns of the
interior by subsidized mail steamers, and a railway to Mytho is almost completed. All the principal towns of French Cochin-China possess telegraphic communication, and a sub-marine cable unites the colony with Singapore, Hongkong,
Haiphong, &c. The postal organization of the colony is very complete and efficient.
Correspondence can be sent daily to almost all parts of the country. The Journal
OJJiciel, which is also the Government Gazette, is published twice a week, Le Suigonnais
appears twice a week, and Le Trompette is published weekly.
The foreign trade of Saigon, which is practically that of the whole colony,
amounted in 1883 to a value of $28,224,872; the exports being $15,937,852, and the
imports $12,237,020. Of the exports rice figures for $12,326,842 (8,648,243 piculs).
The bulk of the trade is carried on with Hongkong and Singapore. Of the imports,
$3,791,434 came from Singapore, $4,803,835 from Hongkong and China, and
$1,808,324 from France. Cotton goods account for $1,767,979 of the imports, silk
piece goods for $1,407,664, and opium for $371,050. Of the cotton goods only $4,515
were of French origin. In 1883, 524 vessels, aggregating 564,688 tons, cleared from
the port, of which 239 vessels of 227,902 tons were British.
A new tariff has been proposed, which, if adopted, will destroy the freedom of
the port. Hitherto the duties have been limited to spirits, arms, and ammunition,
but under the new tariff nearly all imports will be subject to heavy duty ; imports
from France and Algeria, however, would get a rebate of 60 per cent. The export
duty on rice and paddy by foreign ships would be 27 cents; to France and French
colonies 18 cents, and to the latter by French ships 15 cents. Light dues are fixed
at 10 cents, and the tonnage dues on foreign vessels at 40 cents, French vessels being
exempt.
