The present capital of China was formerly the Northern capital only, as its name
denotes, but it has long been really the metropolis of the Central Kingdom. Poking is
situated on a sandy plain 13 miles S. W. of the Pei-ho river, and about 110 miles from
its mouth, in latitude 39 deg. 54 min. N. and longitude 116 deg. 27 min. E. or nearly on
the parallel of Naples. A canal connects the city with the Pei-ho. Peking is ill
adapted by situation to be the capital of a vast Empire, nor is it in a position to becomea great manufacturing or industrial centre. The products of all parts of China
naturally find their way to the seat of Government, but it gives little save bullion in
return.
From Dr. Dennys’s description of Peking we quote the following brief historical
sketch:— “ The city formerly existing on the site of the southern portion of Peking
was the capital of the Kingdom of V a n . About 222 b.c., this kingdom was overthrown by the C h in dynasty and the seat of Government was removed elsewhere.
Taken from the C h in s by the K h a ita n s about 936 A.D., it was some two years afterwards made the southern capital of that people. The K in dynasty subduing the
Khaitans, in their turn took possession of the capital, calling it the ‘ Western Residence.
About a .d . 1151, the fourth sovereign of the Kins transferred the court thither, and
named it the Central ltesidence. In 1215, it was captured by Genghis Khan. In 1264
Kublai Khan fixed his residence there, giving it the title of C h u n g -tu or Central
Kesidence, the people at large generally calling it S h u n t’ien -fu . In 1267 A.D., the city
was transferred 3 li (one mile) to the North of its then site, and it was then called T a - t u —
‘the Great Residence.’ The old portion became what is now known as the ‘ Chinese city’
and the terms ‘ Northern’ and ‘ Southern’ city, or more commonly n e i-c h e n g
(within the wall) and w ai-cheng (without the wall), came into use. The native Emperors
who succeeded the Mongol dynasty did not, however, continuo to make Peking the seat
of Government. The court was shortly afterwards removed to Nanking, which was
considered the chief city of the Empire until, in 1421, Yung Lo, the third Emperor of
the Ming dynasty, again held his court at Peking, since which date it has remained the
capital of China. ”
The present city of Peking is divided into two portions, the Northern or Tartar
city and the Southern or Chinese. The former is being gradually encroached upon by
the Chinese, and the purely Manchu section of the capital will soon be very limited.
The southex-n city is almost exclusively occupied by Chinese. The general shape of
Peking may be roughly represented by a square placed upon an oblong, the former
standing for the Tartar and the latter for the Chinese city. The whole of the capital
is, of course, walled. The walls of the Tartar city are the strongest. They average 50 feet
in height and 40 feet in width, and are buttressed at intervals of about sixty yards.
The parapets are loop-holed and crenelated. They are faced on both sides with brick,
the space between being filled with earth and conci-etc. Each of the gateways is
surmounted by a three-storied pagoda. The walls of the Chinese city arc about 30 feet
in height, 25 feet thick at the base, and 15 feet wide on the terre plein. The total,
circumference of the walls round the two cities slightly exceeds twenty miles.
The Tartar city consists (Dr. Williams tells us) of three enclosures, one within the
other, each surrounded by its own wall. The innermost, called Kin-ching or Prohibited
City, contains the Imperial Palace and its surrounding buildings; the second is occupied
by the several offices appertaining to the Govenxment and by private residences of
officials; while the outer consists of dwelling-houses, with shops in the chief avenues.
The Chinese city is the business portion of Peking, but it pi'esents few features of interest
to sight-seers, while the enclosure known as the Pi-ohibited City is, as its title denotes,,
forbidden to all foreign visitoi-s. The numerous temples, the walls, the Foreign Legatioixs,
and the curio shops are the chief attractions to the tourist. The streets of the Chinese
metropolis are kept in a most disgx-aceful condition. In the dry season the pedestrian
sinks deep in noxious dust, and in wet weather he is liable to be drowned in the torrentsthat rush along the thoroughfares, where the constant traffic has worn away the soil.
1899 saw the innovation of Legation Street being cleansed, levelled and macadamised
— the greatest urban improvement in three centuries. Experts say that the money lost
in time, wear and tear of men, mules and carts every year is greater than the prime cost
of macadamising all the main thoroughfares. The congestion of traffic a nd the personal
discomfort of cart-transit are inconceivable to people who have not experienced them.
There is an air of decay about Peking which extends even to the finest of the Temples and
Palaces, and which powerfully impresses every visitor as symbolic of the decadence of
Empire. The population of Peking is not accurately known, but according to a Chinese
estimate, which is probably much in excess, it is 1,300,000, of whom 900,000 reside in the
Tartar and 400,000in the Chinese city. There is no direct foreign trade with Peking, and
the small foreign population is made up of the members of the various Legations, the
Maritime Customs establishments, the professors of the College of Peking, and the
missionary body. In August, 1884, the city was brought into direct telegraphic
communication with the rest of the world, by an overland line to Tientsin v id
Lungchow. The year 1899 witnessed two other innovations, which would have been
regarded as impossible ten years ago, viz: the erection of large two-storied buildings on
prominent sites for the Austrian Legation and the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.
These are breaks with immemorial tradition that the fe n g -sh u i must resent elevation in
houses other than those of the immortal gods and the son of heaven. A railway line to
Tientsin was opened in 1897.
The year 1900 was the most memorable year in the history of Peking from the fact
that for the first time in the history of civilization during two thousand
years a dastardly and deliberate attempt was made by a responsible government
to violate the sanctitas legatorum . The Chinese have made characteristic efforts to escape
the responsibility for this turpitude; but the formal complicity of the leading men in the
Government and of the Empress Dowager with the Boxer sedition has been proved up
to the hilt, and endless Imperial Edicts remain to show that the Government as such
was heart and soul committed to the anti-foreign and anti-Christian aims of the
Reactionary Party. Reference is made elsewhere to the progress of the lloxer
agitation : enough to say here that the I-Ho-Chiian or Boxers arrived in force v id
Pao-ting-fu on .1 une 13th, and between that day and the 19th began their policy of
plunder, destruction and murder. All the buildings outside of the Legation cordon in
the Chinese and Manchu cities, including all the Missionary premises and native
preaching stations, as well as the residences of all who were known or
oven suspected of being in any way connected with foreigners were destroyed.
These people themselves were ruthlessly murdered. The most interesting building
thus to suffer was the well-known Nan-T’ang or Southern Homan Catholic Cathedral,
built more than two hundred years ago. In the attempt to destroy the small
foreign drug-store belonging to Messrs. A. S. Watson and Company, Limited, of Hongkong, the great Bazaar in which it is situated caught fire, notwithstanding the
assurances of the chief lioxer that ho, by occult influence, could prevent the fire
from spreading. The destruction caused by this fire was inconceivably great: all the
wealthy banks, silver shops, silk warehouses, and curiosity-shops, with their priceless
and irreplaceable stocks of antique art, were consumed.
Before this act of incendiarism the threatening aspect of affairs had led the
Ministers to apply to their Admirals for marine guards, and late in May and
early in June some five hundred men with two or three machine guns had been sent
up to the Legations. On the 9th of June the Ministers wired urgently for more
men, a request which the Navy met in a way described in the notes on Taku (see
pages 175-7); but these latter reinforcements never arrived. On .June 19th the Tsung-liYamen notified the Legations to quit the city by 4 p.m. on the 20th, assigning as
a reason the Allies’ attack on and capture of the Taku forts. Protection was of
course promised; but even had the Imperial Government been acting in good faith
and been willing to protect the thousand refugees in their long journey to the Coast,
it was certain that they had not the ability to do so. The Boxers were now in complete
domination of the City, and would have paid no heed- whatever to any assurances
of the Government. Moreover, such a policy of scuttle meant the certain massacre of
several thousand Christian refugees who had fled into the City from the suburbs, and
bad placed themselves under the care of the Fathers and the Missionaries. The
demand of the Yamen was refused. The next day, Baron von Ketteler, the German
Minister, while proceeding to the Yamen to interview the Chinese Ministers, was shot
at by Imperial soldiers from loopholed houses, and was brutally murdered; his Secretary,
Mr. Cordes, escaping the same fate by a miracle, though he was badly wounded. This
unheard-of atrocity precipitated thesupreme crisis. The Chinese Government saw clearly
that it could not possibly now go back, and the foreigners knew that certain death was
in store for them unless they could ward it off by their own prowess until relief came.
Earthworks were thrown up, and all the people were brought within the lines to a
central position. The extreme limits of the defended position were 800 by 400
yards, the greater dimension being marked with the South Wall of the Tartar CityThe liev. G. W. Gamewell, an American Missionary, undertook to construct earthworks under the direction of the military officers, and succeeded admirably. His work
afterwards exacted the highest praise from the Engineer officers of the lielief Column,,
and next to the defenders’ courage it was the chief factor in the ultimate salvation of thegarrison. Sandbags were improvised in vast number, the ladies and native refugeesrendering fine work in this direction; every possible textile was used for this allimportant purpose, and priceless embroideries, carpets, curtains, as well as clothes,
were seen in the barricades alongside of jute and hessians.
The first death was that of the liev. II. James of the Imperial University. He was
shot by Tung Fuh-shiang’s wild Kansu ruffians while he was advancing to speak
with their officers at the bridge to the North of the Legations. The Austrian and
Italian Legations were the first to be attacked and burned ; these were followed by thedestruction of the Customs’ premises, with all the archives and the records of Sir
Robert Hart’s life’s work. On June 22nd and 23rd desperate attempts were made to
fire the British Legation, which from the first and throughout the siege was regarded
as the key of the foreign position. On the 24th these were renewed, but were checked
by the fine steadiness of the British marines. The Hanlin College, with its priceless
Library, was burned to the ground by the vandalistic soldiery in these attempts.
Rifle fire was practically continuous on the part of the Chinese for the first ten days ;
with great skill they kept under cover, but if their own testimony may be accepted
(their conversation was easily overheard at some of the barricades) this was less due
to military prudence than to personal cowardice; the besieged never wasted one shot
and only fired when an enemy was seen and could be hit. After the Customs’ premises
were fired, the most persistent attacks were on the east of the Allied position around
the palace of the Prince Su (Su Wan’g-fuh) where the native Christians were aggregated, and where Colonel Shiba and his gallant band of Japanese sailors were
constantly acting the part of heroes. On June 28th shell fire was added to the
sufferings of the defenders. Happily, as at Tientsin, the shell was of indifferent quality,
and was seldom well timed. It often failed to burst, and seldom did much damage.
The most severe punishment was from a big gun in the Mongol Market close to the
western wall of the British Legation.
A rough census was taken of the foreign population about this time, and gave thefollowing numbers :— Women, 147 inside the British Legation, 2 outside ; Children, 76
inside, 3 outside; Men, 191 inside, 54 out ; total, 473. The marine and other guards,
were between 450 and 500 ; so that altogether inside the lines there were nearly 1,000
foreigners. On July 1 st, the besieged made their first big sortie, the object being
to capture a gun near the Su Wan’g-fuh. Although skilfully executed it was not
successful. On the 3rd, the Chinese pressed very hard on the Americans who were
holding the west part of the foreign section of the w all; they actually carried a
barricade, but it was quickly retaken by a conjoint party of Americans, British and
Russians, in which Capt. Myers of the American Army was seriously wounded. July the
4th was celebrated by an artillery duel. The chief weapon of the Allies deserves a
paragraph to itself. Some forgotten shell had been found in a well in the
compound of the Russian Legation ; and then by a curious coincidence in one of the
foraging expeditions constantly made in parts of the town within the lines an old
British muzzle loader was discovered—it had probably been purchased us old iron by
the possessor in the early sixties but found too refractory to his tools. This was
furbished up by the skill of some of the armourers, and fired with very considerable
moral effect by an American gunner on the Chinese. The gun was aptly called the
“ International.” Necessity proved the mother of invention in many cases during the
siege ; the excellent pewter of the Pekingese was moulded into bullets, and the Fathersof the Pei-tang in their desperate efforts to keep the Chinese at bay actually made
their own gunpowder as well an bullets.
On July 1 1 th, the French caught and shot some twenty Chinese in a position which
they rushed with great gallantry ; but on the other hand they were caught by a successful sap on the 13th. By this device the Chinese managed to blow up two largehouses in the French Legation, and drove still more people into the neighbouring
British compound. On July 16th, the gallant Strouts, the commander of the British
Marines, was killed by rifle fire while examining the defences of the Su Wan’g-fuh along
with Col. Shiba, the Japanese commander, and Ur. Morrison of the Tim es. This loss
was irreparable in more senses than one. Captain Strouts had shown himself a hero
among heroes, and had the complete confidence of everyone, civilians and military
alike. It would be no injustice to say that he and his gallant Japanese colleague, Shiba,.
were the active heroes of the siege. The gallant Colonel on this occasion had a narrow
escape, getting a bullet through his coat, while Dr. Morrison was severely wounded
in the leg. After this the British Minister, Sir Claude Macdonald, resumed his military
rank and took a leading part in the defence as a military man as well as British
Minister.
Trench digging to countercheck the possibilities of further sapping was now
extensively undertaken ; still it did not prove altogether a success. The very day the
relief was effected, a deep mine was discovered under a portion of the Students’
Quarters with the boxes to receive the powder ready in position ; another two hours
more and there would havebeen a tragedy of unexampled magnitude. About July ICth
the news of the capture of Tientsin reached the high Chinese authorities, and at once
modified their attitude: their attack slackened, and on July 18th hostilities practically
ceased, as far as fighting was concerned, while attempts were made to reopen communications between besiegers and besieged, though the latter were as rigidly as ever
secluded from all news of the outside world. Chinese soldiers came inside the Su Wan’gfuh and wished to fraternize with Colonel Shiba’s men, offering them protection:
the Colonel refused ; thereupon they sent in small quantities of fruit and food. Similar
offers were made in other parts of the lines, but there was a just suspicion of the
“ JDanaos et d o n a fe r e n te s.” With a few exceptions the gifts were rejected, especially so
the bag of flour hoisted over the barricades in one place. The Chinese made much
of this offer of supplies in their attempts to delude the World as to the real nature
of the position in Peking. About this time the besieged received their first news of
outside affairs, and learned that Tientsin had been attacked and relieved, and that a
Belief Column was being organized for them. The paucity of information was one of
the most curious features in a situation that was full of surprises. China is a country
where news may as a rule be bought for money easier than in any country in the
world, as spies abound ; yet for weeks the World knew nothing of Peking, foreign-Peking
nothing of the World. For the next ten days active hostilities were in complete
abeyance, though vigilance on both sides was unremitting, and the defences were
continually being strengthened.
On the 2 2nd of July, the attack was renewed at the Pei-tang or Northern Homan
Catholic Cathedral, where the Catholic Fathers under Bishop Favier had assembled more
than three thousand native Christians, and where, with the help of fifty French and
Italian marines, one of the most pathet ic and desperate resistances of modern times had
been carried on. They were short of food, of ammunition, of medicines, and of everything but calm courage and Christian fortitude. These people were the special object of
Boxer hatred and fanatical effort, and had to conduct their defence amidst inconceivable
conditions of overcrowding, disease and famine : during the last few days of the Siege
their daily allowance of food was four ounces of rice, and at the very last this had to bo
reduced to two. The children and aged died like flies. They were not only in utter
ignorance of the outside world but also of their lay countrymen in the Legation part of
the City.
News that the relief column was leaving Tientsin at once came to the American
Minister on August 2nd. This was somewhat premature, as the Column did not finally
start till Aucrust 3rd ; but it served to reanimate the defenders. At this time there were
883 people within the enclosure of the British Legation, that being the refuge to which
all had recourse when they were driven from other positions in the defence. Of this
number 527 were Europeans and Japanese. The reports of the defeat of the Chinese at
Pei-t’sang and Yang-tsun, and of the swift advance of the Allied army, had the effect
of making the Chinese more resolute to gratify their hatred, even at the last moment;
consequently the attacks of the 12th and the 13th were the most desperate of the whole
Siege ; but as the heavy guns of the Belief were distinctly heard from Tung-chow, the
defence knew the meaning of it and were more resolute on their part to beat the enemy
off. The Japanese and the Russians were at the eastern gates of the Tartar City on
the 13th of August, and to these localities the Chinese withdrew their best forces
leaving the eastern Gate of the Chinese City all but unguarded. Here Sir Arthur
Gaselee and General Chaffee leading the British and American contingents of the
Column found an easy entrance. After seizing the Temple of Heaven, they swiftly
pushed along in a direction parallel to the South Wall and found a way on through the
Water Gate, by which the waters of the Imperial Canal How under the Wall.
In a few minutes the relief of the Legations was an accomplished fact. The
Russians and French got in early the following morning at the Tung-pien-men, and the
Japanese, who, after being the leaders all the way from Tientsin and bearing the brunt
of most of the hard lighting on the road up, had the bad fortune to meet with most of
the real opposition at the Walls, entered later on in the same morning. The gallant
little Islanders found some solace in coming across the chief Treasury as they
fought their way across the City, driving the beaten Chinese before them. On the
following day the Americans advanced on the Imperial and Forbidden Cities
and, with the co-operation of the French and Russians, seized these citadels
of prejudice and seclusion. The French, backed by the Japanese, effected the
release of the sore-tried people in the Fei-t’ang. The City was given up to a
“modified looting” for a period of three days, and then military government was
established, the different Powers undertaking different areas of the town. The Palaces
fell to the Russians, who also sent out a column and seized the famous Summer Palace,
thirteen miles distant. The capture of the City was formally celebrated by a visit of
all the leading Ministers, Officers, and some of the troops to the Palace. For the first
time in history, foreigners were able to see the arcana of the Imperial Court. The
Imperial Family had the day before the Relief escaped from the City and fled into Shan-si
v id the Northern passes, en route for Si-an-fu, where it remained till October, 1001.
Peking, though it suffered indescribably from the depredations of the Boxers,
the Imperial troops, the awful ruffianism of Tung-fuh-shiang s barbarians from Kansu,
to say nothing of the subsequent attentions of the Allied troops, is at present more
attractive as an object of travel than before, for the simple reason that the City was
cleansed by the foreign Powers, and that many places of antiquarian, artistic or
historic interest are now accessible if the visitor sets about his object with due
attention to national susceptibilities.
During 1902 the fortification of the Legation quarter was completed, the railway
termini brought to the C h'ien M en in the Chinese City, and the reconstruction of the
various legations was begun. These were slowly brought to completion, and extensive
barracks connected with each for the accommodation of the Legation Guards. As
all Chinese buildings in this section were removed the Legation quarter presents the
appearance of a European settlement of about half a square mile in extent. In, or
bordering upon this section, there are three good hotels, Hotel du Nord, Hotel de
Pekin, and Palace. In addition to Kierulff’s there ¡ire now several other large stores,
German, French, Italian or Chinese which sell all kinds of foreign goods. The Club
House is much larger and more convenient than it was before; there is a Soldiers’
Y.M.C.A., and a Catholic church for the Legation Guards, and two hospitals,— St. Michael’s and the Methodist Episcopal (John L. Hopkins Memorial) which are provided
with accommodation for both Chinese and European patients. There are three Banks,
Hongkong and Shanghai, Russo-Chinese and Yokohama Specie, all of which do a flourishing business. The streets are being macadamized, and an Electric Light Company
has been organized which will furnish light wherever wanted in the city. Many of the
wealthy Chinese have telephones in their homes and a line connects the city with Tientsin. Reuter has established a permanent agency in Peking.
The various Missions have been rebuilt. The bungalows have all been exchanged
for two-storied houses, the arrangement of which has been greatly altered, giving to
the mission compounds a much more attractive appearance. The church in the
Methodist Mission, at the rear of the Hotel du Nord, will accommodate 1,500 people.
In this Mission there are hospitals for both women and men, a Girls’ High School in
which there are 200 pupils, and about the same number of students in the Peking University. These buildings are all lit with acetylene, and heated by steam or hotair,
while the houses are furnished with water from an artesian well in the compound. In connection with the London Mission, near the Yon Ketteler Monument, is
the Lockhart Medical College, established for medical study in North China, an
institution for the erection of which the Empress Dowager contributed Tls. 10,000. A
little north of this is the American Board Mission in connection with which there is a
large Girls school and a very fine church with a seating capacity of about 1,000. The
Presbyterian Mission is near the Llama and Confucian Temples in Hie north of the city,
has hospitals for both men and women, and is furnished with water by a windmill from
an artesian well. The South and East churches of the Roman Catholic Mission have
not been rebuilt, but the North Cathedral has been greatly improved. The Mission
for the Blind is on K a n Y ii l l u - t 'u n j not far from the London Mission, while the S.P.G.
Mission is in the West city.
The question of high houses in Peking is for ever settled by the erection of a twostoried residence by Prince Su, and three large blocks of similar buildings for the College of Languages by the Government.