Port Arthur, at the point of the “ Regent’s Sword, ” or Liaotung Peninsula, was
formerly China’s chief naval arsenal, but was captured by the Japanese in the war
with China in 1894, and its defences and military works were destroyed. In 1898, when
Russia obtained a lease of Port Arthur and Talienwan, she fortified the former, making
it into a great naval and military stronghold.
By the time the war between Russia and Japan broke out, an anchorage for
battleships had been provided at great cost in the western harbour, and the hills
surrounding the harbour had been so strongly fortified that Port Arthur had come to
be regarded as an impregnable fortress. In May, 1904, Port Arthur was besieged by
the Japanese forces, under General Hogi, and capitulated on January 1st. 1905,
after repeated conflicts of a most sanguinary character.
Port Arthur (called by the Japanese Ryojun) is now the headquarters of the
Kwantung Army and a centre of civil administration in the province of Kwantung.
The town is divided into two parts, the old and the new. The old or east part is a
business town existing from the Chinese regime, and the Ryojun Coast Guard,
Manchuria Dockyard Co., Red Cross hospital, captured arms museum, the fortress
commander’s office, local civil government office, and the high and district courts
are located there. The new or west part was a poor village when the Russians entered
into occupation. They erected there many fine buildings, among them being the
present Kwantung Government Office, the Middle School and Higher School for
Girls, Engineering University and the Yamato Hotel, etc. As a memorial to the
Japanese soldiers who fell in the assault of Port Arthur, on Monument Hill (called
Hakugi- Yoku-san), which commands the harbour, a high tower was erected at the
suggestion of Admiral Togo and General Xogi. The climate is bracing, and though
the winter from December to February is cold the harbour is free from ice. March,
April and May are lovely months, as the surrounding hills and fields are covered
with verdure and flowers. June, July and August constitute the wet season and are
rather warm, though not so warm as other cities in Manchuria, as the sea-breezes
temper the heat. The rain is not sufficient to inconvenience travellers much, and in
fact Port Arthur at this time of year attracts many visitors, who enjoy the sea-bathing
under the famous Golden Hill, on which some 20 foreign houses have been built by
the South Manchuria Railway Co., and may be rented. September, October and
November' form a perfect autumn with mild climate, and there are abundant supplies of
fresh fruit and fish. On July 1st, 1910, the Western Harbour was thrown open to the
ships of all nations with a view to fostering international trade.
There is a branch line of the South Manchurian Railway, and through the junction
station (Ch’ou Shui) several trains run daily between Port Arthur and Dairen. The
journey occupies only one hour and a half by train. Drainage and waterworks are of the town according to recent returns is 16,280, including 8,837 apanese (exclusive of military officers and men), 7,424 Chinese and 19 of other nationalities