Perak is the most northerly of the Federated States on the west coast, touching 
Province Wellesley on the north and Selangor on the south and having an
area of 7,980 square miles. About 1850 the discovery of tin in Larut was followed
by the immigration of Chinese in great numbers. Since the appointment of a
British Resident in 1874, the record of the State has been one of remarkable
progress.
The State is well watered, the Perak (with its tributaries, the Singor, the
Temengor, the Rui, the Plus, the Kinta, Ratang Padang, Bidor and Sungkai),
being the most im portant rivers. Other rivers of importance are the Krian,
the Kurau, and the Bernam (with its tributary, the Slim). The mountains on
the east boundary, which are part of the main range of the Peninsula, rise to a
height of over 7,000 feet.
Sanatoria have been established on the Larut Hills at heights varying from
3,300 to 4,500 feet. Experimental gardens with English flowers and vegetables
are to be found on the Larut Hills.
The chief exports are tin and rubber. Coconuts and rice are extensively
grown. In the Krian District the Government has completed an extensive
scheme for the irrigation of 61,000 acres of land the larger proportion of which
is already under cultivation for rice. A similar scheme with an area of 24,000
acres is in course of development in the Sungei Manik Area in Lower Perak.
So far 9,737 acres are available of which 5,975 were planted in 1938.
Larut, Kinta, Batang Padang, and Klian Intan are the chief mining districts. The 
district of Batang Padang lies between the Kinta Valley and the
Selangor boundary, and contains a little gold and wolfram mixed with its tin.
The total mileage of completed roads in Perak is (a) 1,076 of metalled and
(b) 74 of unmetalled roads, 759 miles of bridle paths.
The British Resident has residencies at Taiping, the Headquarters of Government, 
and at Ipoh, the chief commercial centre. The chief towns are Ipoh,
Taiping, Kuala Kangsar, Kampar, and Tapah. The chief port is Teluk Anson.
Since the Anglo-Siamese treaty of 1909 the territory claimed by Perak for
many years, and held by Patani since 1826, has been formally ceded to Perak,
and the State now includes the whole watershed of the river that gives it its
name. The new territory which was taken over in 1909 and incorporated in
the Upper Perak District, exceeds 1,000 square miles of area. It extends from
Kedah on the West to Legeh on the East, and contains the tin mines of Klian
Intan and much good stanniferous country. This territory is well watered, and
the rolling plains of the Kroh plateau, 1,000 feet above the sea, afford a healthy
Government station. At Tasek on the Kedah border there is a small natural
lake. At the time when the territory was taken over the population was about
3,000 of various nationalities.
By an Act of Parliament which received the Royal assent on November 16,
1934, the territory of the Dindings was restored to Perak and has formed part
of the State since February, 1935. The area of the Territory, which contains
the natural harbour of Lumut, is 190 square miles.
