Penang—or Prince of Wales Island, as it was formerly called — is situated on the
west coast of the Malay Peninsula in 5 deg. north latitude. With a strip of land on
the opposite coast known as Province Wellesley, from which it is separated by a strait
varying from two to 11 miles in width, it constitutes the second in importance of the
three areas known as the “Straits Settlements.” The island contains an area of
about 110 square miles, being 15 miles long and eleven broad at its widest portion, while
Province Wellesley extends for a distance of 45 miles along the coast, and has an
average width of eight miles, containing 280 square miles. The chief town of Penang
is George Town, but the name of the island (which signifies "Betel-nut Island"))
has become so identified with the town that the specific designation has almost
dropped out of use.
Penang was ceded to the famous Captain Francis Light for the East India Company
in the year 1786 for an annual payment of $6,000 which was later increased to $10,000
to the Rajah of Kedah, a step which was followed, 13 years later, by the cession of
Province Wellesley. In the year 1805 Penang was elevated to the rank of a presidency,
its rising fortunes even then bidding fa ir to eclipse those of Malacca, while Singapore
was as yet unknown as a settlement. In 1826 Singapore and Malacca were incorporated
w ith Penang, and the three were designated by the title they s till retain. But, as the
fortunes of Singapore brightened, those of Penang declined, until the former quite
overshadowed her older sister, and in 1826 the seat of government was transferred
to Singapore,
The Settlement of Penang is governed by a Resident Councillor and has
four unofficial representatives in the Legislative Council, which sits at Singapore.
An important department of its trade lies in the business transacted with
the Dutch settlements in Sumatra; and recently it has become an emporium and
port of shipment for the Malayan Rubber supplies. As it is now the railway terminus for
the southern Siam Malay States and the port of disembarkation of passengers for
Bangkok, its commercial importance is like ly to develop considerably. It is a convenient
coaling and man-of-war station, and is the seat of government for Province
Wellesley, which must always be an im portant centre of British influence. The
Government in 1906 acquired the graving dock at Prye River in Province Wellesley,
250 feet in length and 50 feet broad at entrance also a slip for vessels 100 feet long.
The Prai Dock and Wharves were purchased in 1914 by the Federated Malay States
Railway Department from the Colonial Government but have not been, a great success
owing to silting. New proposals for better wharfage facilities are now being discussed.
George Town is built on a plain, at the back of which rises the hill which, as Penangites
declare, renders life on the island more enjoyable than in any other part of the
Colony. The construction of a Hill Railway by the F.M.S. Railways Department is
completed and there is an excellent hotel at the top. A proposal to make a road up
the Hill is under consideration.
The formation of Penang is granitic, being covered in many places with a sharp
sand or stiff clay, the produce of the decomposition of the granite. Above this again
comes a coat of vegetable mould of greater or lesser thickness. With the exception of
a plain about three miles in depth, upon which stands the town and environs, the whole
of the island consists of hills with narrow valleys. minerals of commercial value
are found in Penang.
The influence of the regular monsoon is more distinctly felt at Penang than in the
most easterly part of the Straits of Malacca, owing to the wideness of the latter to the
west and vicinity to the Bay of Bengal. During the north-easterly monsoon, from
November to March inclusive, clear settled weather prevails, and in the south-westerly,
from April to October, the rains take place. But neither rain nor drought is of long
continuance. The average heat of the year at the level of the sea is 83°, and at the
height of 2,500 feet, the highest inhabited point, 70°, the annual range being about 20°.
Where there is free ventilation the climate is superior in salubrity to that of any other
tropical one.
Of mammals, the principal species are monkeys, and two species of viverrida—
the musang and binturong. The ornithology calls for no special remarks. The
island is a happy hunting ground for the entomologist, numerous tine species of
lepidoptera frequenting the hills. The botany of Penang is perhaps better known
than that of any part of the Peninsula, and, for the area involved, is particularly rich.
Palms, bamboos, banana and other fruit-trees, and nutmegs clothe the hillsides, while
ferns are also plentiful. The high land permits of the cultivation of many flowers, and
other plants which will not thrive in the flat level lands of Singapore or Malacca.
Betel-nut, with copra and fruits and nutmegs, are the indigenous articles of trade.
Nutmegs were at one time a most important branch of industry, but the blight, which
simultaneously affected the whole Peninsula, destroyed it. Their cultivation has, however, 
now been resumed, and Penang nutmegs stand high in the market. There is no
agriculture properly so-called. Pepper was at one period of its early history produced
bo the extent oi three and a half million pounds annually; but the competition of other
places, notably of Netherlarids-India, proved fatal, and it is now only cultivated in
small patches, and is not classed as an article of export trade. Tapioca, coconuts,
gutta, rubber and citronella are also among the products cultivated.
The Singapore-Penang railway has its terminus at Prai, which is connected with
the island by a ferry service.
The town possesses few attractions, and the public buildings are mediocre, with
the exception of the Government Offices, a fine block erected in 1889 near the jetty
St. George's Church is an unpretending edifice of 80 years standing, centrally situated.
There are also a Koman Catholic Church and several mission chapels. The Botanical
Gardens and Waterfall are well worthy of a visit, and another place of interest at
some distance from the town is the Chinese Temple at Ayer Itam. There are many
beautiful little beaches round the coast of the Island ; the round trip by motor car
takes about 2 1/2 hours and is well worth while. The estimated population on December
31st, 1937 of Penang and Province Wellesley was 391,149 persons, as compared with
59,851 in April, 1931 (including Dindings).
Penang is a free port with the exception of duties levied on Alcoholic
Liquors, Tobacco and Cigars, Opium and Petroleum . There are no port or
harbour dues. The Harbour is sheltered from the monsoons by Penang Island
on the West and Province Wellesley on the East. The rise and fall of ordinary
spring tides is 7'3''. The rise of ordinary neap tides L.W.O.S.T. is 4'6''. A
constant depth of water alongside Swettenham Wharf, which is 1200 ft. long,
is maintained 30' L.W.O.S.T. The total area of the Penang Harbour Board
has a godown area of 186,000 square feet, and owns 9 steam tugs of varying
capacity, 5 steam cranes with a lifting capacity from 3 to 7 tons, one 15 ton
steam crane at Prye Dock, & one 10 ton steam crane at Bagan Dalam Slipway, 
14 electric cranes with a lifting capacity from 1 ton up to 3 tons, and
one 3 ton overhead electric crane. The harbour can accomodate from 15 to 20
ocean-going steamers within easy reach of the quay. A good supply of excellent
water is available. A regular ferry service for passengers, motor cars and lorries
between Penang and Butterwo rth is maintained by the Penang Harbour
Board and regular ferry service is also run between Penang and Prai Railway
Station in connection with the F.M.S. Railways. The Penang Harbour Board
operates a graving dock on the left bank of Prai River near the entrance,
340' long by 50' wide at entrance with a depth on sill of 14 1/2 at spring tides.
The workshop is fitted with up-to-date machinery electrically driven for small
ship repairs. Also a shipway on the right bank of Prai River beyond Prye
River Dock with a patent slip 450' long by 76' wide, carriage, 151' x 26'. Coal
is stored on the F.M.S, railways premises at Prai and is handled by them.
