This port, known to the Japanese as Jinsen, is situated in lat. 37 deg. 28 min. 30 sec.
N. and long. 126 deg. 37 min. E., at the entrance to the Saleé river, an embouchure of
the Han-kang close to and immediately east of Roze island, on the west coast of Corea,
-in the metropolitan province of Kióng-kyi-to. Though only two years ago a mere
fishing village, and now still in its infancy, many buildings of a substantial character
have been erected and tho port is rapidly rising into importance as a commercial
centre.
The s'lb-prefectural town of Jenehuan is situated 10 li distant from tho port,
which latter is locally known as Chemulpo. Fut-bing on the Han-kang is the
nearest prefectural city, and is distant some 35 li, near which place is situated, also
on the Han-kang, the rising town of Mapu, which lies on the main road to Hanyang
(Soul) some 75 li distant from the port (Chemulpo), or 30 li from Soul. There are
two steamship agencies here, one British, tho other Japanese; two Japanese Banks;
two European and one American firms, as well as some 400 Japanese merchants and
traders. The whole of the land forming the Japaneso Settlement at Chemulpo was sold
publicly early in 1884; and the first land sales in the general Foreign Settlement
took place on the 7th November of the same year. There is a Municipal Council at
Chemulpo composed of the Foreign Consuls, one Corean official, and three represen-
tatives of the landholders. The Council employs two foreign and four Chinese police
constables. The approaches to the river (Salee) are now well surveyed, and the latest
British Admiralty charts are quite reliable. The river itself has been carefully
surveyed by the (foreign) Harbour Department of the Royal Corean Customs Service,
and the result of the surveys will be published. The outer anchorage is accessible to
ships of all sizes, and the inner one to coasting vessels and steamers ordinarily
employed in the local trade. The river is navigable for vessels not drawing over
10 feet up to Mapu; but seeing that at certain seasons there are a few places where
the fall in the river is very considerable, owing to the existence of sand banks, it is
desirable that river steamers, intended to run regularly, should not draw over six feet.
The climate is healthy and may be compared to that of Chefoo. 29.87 was the
mean reading of the barometer in the summer months of last year, and 80.14 in the
winter. The thermometer ranged from 3 deg. to 60 deg. Fahr. during the winter, the
average minimum being 18 deg. and maximum 48 deg., and during the summer from
50 deg. to 89 deg., the averages being 48 deg. minimum and 77 deg. maximum.
The port was opened to Japanese trade on the 1st January, 1883, and to foreign
trade on the 16th June of the same year. The first Customs duties were collected
in July, 1883, but the Japanese did not pay dues and duties until the 3rd November,
1883. The value of the trade of the port for the year ended 31st December, 1883,
was §1,500,000.