Canton is situated on the Chu-kiang, or Pearl River, in latitude 23 deg. 7 min.
10 sec. N., and longitude 113 deg. 14 min. 30 sec. E., and is the capital of the
province of Kwangtung. It is sometimes called tho City of Rams and the City of
Genii, both of which names are derived from ancient legends. One of the first cities
in the Chinese Empire, it is also the seat of government for the province, and is the
residence of the Viceroy of “ Tho Two Kwang” (Kwangtung and Kwangsi). The
Governor of Kwangtung and the Tartar General are likewise resident here, besides
a number of other government officials of more or less distinction including the
Haikwan, or Superintendent of Customs, a post always held by a Mancliu,
Canton, owing to its favoured situation, became at an early date the port to
which the traffic of European countries was attracted. The Portuguese found their
way thither in 1516, but it is recorded that their conduct in those days was not
calculated to impress the Chinese favourably. The Arab navigators had, however,
been making regular voyages between Canton and the ports of Western Asia as early
as the tenth century. The Dutch appeared on the scene about a hundred years later
than the Portuguese, and these in their turn were supplanted by the English.
The latter, towards the close of the seventeenth century, founded the very profitable
trade which was conducted for nearly one hundred and fifty years by the Agents of
the East India Company, who established a Factory there in 1684, which was afterwards celebrated throughout the world. From 1684 the export of tea to England increased rapidly. The Company’s monopoly terminated in 1834. In 1839, Great Britain
was led to a declaration of war with China in consequence of the oppression to which
foreigners were subjected by the native authorities, and Canton was menaced with
capture in 1841. A pecuniary ransom was, however, received in lieu of the occupation
of the city, and hostilities were for the time being suspended. The lesson, unfortunately,
was without effect, and the arrogance of the Chinese continued unabated. The British
campaign in Central China ensued, and the result was the signature of the Treaty of
Nanking (August 29th, 1842), by which what was called the Co-Hong monopoly at
Canton was abolished and four additional ports thrown open to foreign trade. Nevertheless, the provisions of the Treaty continued to be ignored in the City of Rams, and
foreigners were still denied admittance within its walls. The result of protracted
annoyances and insults was that in October, 1856, Sir Michael Seymour, with the fleet,
again opened hostilities, and some two months later a mob in retaliation pillaged and
burned all the foreign residences. In December, 1857, Sir Charles Straubenzee, in
command of an expedition which had been specially despatched from England,
attacked tho city, and it was taken on the 29th of that month. The French also sent
out an expedition, and the city was occupied by the Allied Forces until October, 1861,
a period of nearly four years.
Canton proper extends to a breadth of about two miles, is about six miles in
circumference, and is enclosed by walls about twenty feet thick and from twenty-fire
to forty feet high. The suburbs spread along the river for nearly five miles. The
entire circuit, including the suburbs, is stated by Williams to be nearly ten miles, the
walls enclosing about six miles. What is called the New City now was formerly
known as the Southern Suburb. The Western Suburb stretches for miles along the
river. The gates by which entrance is gained into the city are sixteen in number,
and two water gates. Canton contains great attractions for foreign visitors in its
numerous temples, pagodas, &c., and in the many curio shops to be found there.
As a specimen of Chinese architecture the Chin Chew Club is well worthy of inspection ; and the Examination Hall, the City of the Dead, the Execution Ground, the
Gaols, the Arsenal, and the Mahomedam Mosque are among other show places.
The French Mission have erected a large and handsome Gothic cathedral, with two
lofty towers surmounted by spires, in the city. The structure is entirely built of
dressed granite, and has been completed externally. The population of Canton is
estimated at 1,600,000.
When the foreign merchants went back to Canton to establish trade after the
capture of the city by the English at the close of 1857, they found the Factory and
the buildings along the river in ruins. Recourse for accommodation was consequently
had to warehouses on the Honam side of the river. Considerable discussion subsequently took place as to the selection of a site for a permanent British settlement,
and it was eventually determined that an extensive mudflat known as Shameen
should be filled in and appropriated. In 1859 an artificial island was created there,
a canal constructed between the northern side of the site and the city, and solid and
extensive embankments of masonry built. It took about two years to complete this
undertaking, and cost no less than 8325,000. Of this sum four-fifths were defrayed
by the British, and one-fifth by the French Government, to whom a portion of the
reclaimed land was given, but they have never built on it. The French also received
a grant of the old site of the Viceroy’s Yamen, on which the new Catholic Cathedral
has been erected. Shameen is pleasingly laid out, and the roads are shaded with well
grown trees, A neat church, called Christ Church, stands at the western end.
During an anti-foreign riot on the 10th September, 1883, sixteen houses and the
Concordia Theatre on the Settlement were burned by the mob. They are now in
course of re-erection.
In consequence of the decline in the importance of Canton as a place of trade,
caused principally by the opening of some of the northern ports, the Shameen site
has been availed of but by few, and many of the merchants by whom lots were
purchased there in 1861, at enormous prices, have withdrawn from Canton altogether.
The trade now transacted there by foreigners is limited. Tea and Silk are the staple
exports. The total export of Tea for the year ending 31st December, 1883, was
14,827,469 lbs, compared with 16,456,446 11)3. in 1882, and 15,325,073 lbs. in 1881 ;
and the quantity of Raw Silk exported in 1883 was 18,105 piculs as compared with
16,505 piculs in 1882. The import of Opium in 1883 was 529 piculs as compared with
17 piculs in 1882, 211 piculs in 1881, and 642 piculs in 1880. The total value of
the trade of the port for 1883 was Tls. 28,559,530 as compared with Tls. 29,143,025
in 1882. The purely native trade of Canton still enjoys a high degree of prosperity.
Ample means of intercommunication exist between Canton and Hongkong, a
distance of about ninety-five miles, by foreign steamers plying daily, and a large
number of native craft. There is daily steam communication with Macao. Steamers
also run regularly between Shanghai, Hongkong, and Canton. There is a safe and
commodious anchorage within 150 yards of the river wall of Shameen. Only steamers
go to Canton ; sailing vessels never ascend beyond Whampoa, owing to the difficulties
of navigating a crowded river. Canton was connected by telegraph (an overland
line) with Kowloon in 1883, and another overland line was completed from Canton
to Lungchau-fu, on the Kwangsi and Tonquin frontier, in June, 1884. A railway
between Canton and Kowloon is projected.
