This, the most eastern of British possessions, is situate off the coast of the
Kwangtung province, at the mouth of the Canton river. It is distant about 40 miles
from Macao and 90 from Canton, and lies between 22 deg. 9 min. and 22 deg. 1 min.
N. lat., and 114 deg. 5 min. and 114 deg. 18 tain. E. long. The name of the island
(Kung Kong) signifies Good Harbour. Hongkong is a Crown Colony and was ceded
to Great Britain by the Chinese Government in 1841. The Government is administered by a Governor, aided by an Executive Council of five officials. The Legislative Council is presided over by the Governor, and is composed of the Chief Justice,
the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Treasurer, the Surveyor-General,
and the Registrar-General, and five unofficial members.
The island is about 11 miles long and from 2 to 5 broad; its circumference is
about 27 miles. It consists of a broken ridge of lofty bills, with few valleys of any
extent and scarcely any ground available for culiivation. It is well watered by
numerous streams, many of which are perennial, and from the waterworks at Pokfolum water of excel! nt niality ou: in limited quantity is supplied to all parts of the
city of Victoria. New and extensive waterworks at Taitarn to provide an ample
supply were commenced at the close of 1882.
The liarl our of Hongkong is one of the fineot and most beautiful in the world,
having an area of ten square mil s, and wiih its diversified scenery and varied shipping, presents an animated and imposing spectacle. It consists of the sheet of
water between the island and the mainland, and is enclosed on all sides lay lofty hills,
unfortunately bare of foliage, except where trees kav been plant d near the city, but
pleasingly green during the south-west nmasoon. An extensive scheme of afforestation is, however, being carried out. The hsy of Victoria is magnificently situated,
the houses, many of them largo and handsome, rising, tier upon tier, from the
water’s edge to a height, of several hu dred feet on the face of the Peak, while
several bungalows are visible on the very summit of the hill-. Seen from the water
at night, when lamps twinkle among the trees and houses, the city, spreading along the
shore for upwards of four miles, affords a sight not to be forgotten.
Nor on landing are the favourable impressions of the stranger dissipated. The
city is wed built, the roads and streets are for the most part admirably made and kept,
the Public Gardens almost unrivalled for tin ir beauty, and many of the thoroughfares
delightfully shaded with well grown trees. The chief pubi c building is the City
H.dl, erected in 1866-9 by subscription; it, contains an elegant theatre, numerous
large rooms used for falls and public meetings, an excellent and valuable Library, and
a Museum yearly increasing in importance. The Government Offices, Supreme Court
House, and Post Office are plain hut substantial edifices. Government Hon e occupies
a commanding situation, in picture sque grounds pleadingly laid out, in the centre of
the city. The Gaol is a large and massive structure, hut the accommodation afforded
bv it is not in excess of the large demands made on it, owing to the inroads of the
criminal population of Kwangtung being so constant and persevering. The Civil
Hospital is a large but plain building in Taipingsban. The Government Central
Schf o’, a most important institution, having soni" six hundred pupils, is very badly
boused at present, but will soon be r moved to a stately a; d commodious structure, to
be called Victoria College, now in course of construction. The Tung Wa Hospital,
a Chinese institution, occupies a large and roomy ’ uilliug. The Barracks for the
garrison are large, and constructed with great regard to the health and comfort of
the troops, and the buildings belonging to the Naval Estabb- ment are substantial
and spacious. The Central Market is a dirty and inconvenient place, which is entirely
given up to the natives' owing to its repulsive condition ; a now market is, however,
about to be erected. The Praya wall, which was reconstructed in 1879-80, is a work
of much solidity and stiength, reflecting the greatest, credit on the Survey Department.
It is faced with large blocks of dressed granite and backed with concrete, and pri-s. nts
a good effect from the water. The Clock Tower, near Peddar’s Wharf, was erecti d
by public subscription in 1862, and the illuminated clock was presented to the Colony
by the firm of Messrs. Douglas Lapraik & Co.
The chief religious buildings are: S. John’s Cathedral (Anglican), which occupies
a commanding site above the Parade Ground, and is a Gothic church of considerable
size but with lew pretensions to architecture. It has a square tower, with pinnacles,
over the western porch, and possesses a peal of bells. A handsome stained window in
t he east end, over the altar,is the chief adornment f the interior. S. Peter’s (Seamen’s)
Church, at West Point, close to the Sailors’ Home, is a neat Gothic erection with a
spire. It also has a stained glass window, presented in 1878 S. Stephen’s (native)
Chutch, in Taipin shan, is a plain building with a bell turret. Union Church is a
pleasing edifice in the Italian style of architecture, with a spire, and contains aocotnmodat on ¡or about 500 persons, hut owing to lack of financial support has had no regularpastor since August 31st, 1884. The Roman Catholic Cathedral, in Wellington S'rent,
is a remarkably plain but commodious structure with small twin domes. A site has
been secured and prepared above Glenealv, and a new Gothic building of much more
imposing appearance and dinr ns'ons will shortly he built there. S. Joseph’s
Cuurch, in Garden Road, is a neat edifice erected in 1876 on the site ot one destroyed
by the great typnoon of 1874; and there are several smaller Catholic mission churches.
There is also a Jewish Synagogue in Hollywood Road, and a Mahotnedan Mo&tpn in
Mosque Street. S. Joseph’s College, a school for l eys managed by tbe Christian
Brothers, occupied a large and handsome building on a commanding site in the centre
of the city. The Roman Catholics possess a Reformatory for Chinese boys and several
charitable end educational institutions, which arc very efficiently managed. Other
denominations likewise support establishments of the san e character, conspicuous
among which are the Diocesan Home and Orphanage, the German Foundling House,
Baxter Vernacular School, &c.
The Piotestant, Roman Catholic, Pa: see, and Mahomedan Cemeteries occupy sites
in Wong-nai Chung Valley, and are kept in good order. The Protestant Cemetery is
almost a rival to the Public Gardens, being admirably laid out and charmingly situated.
There are several Clubs in the Colony. The principal are the Hongkong Club, the
Club Germania, in Wyndham St., and the Lusitano Club in Shelley St. There isaRecreation Club, which possesses Bath and Boat houses on the Praya near the Cricket Ground,
a Cricket Club, a Gun Club, and a Yacht Club, all kept up with considerable spirit.
Tbe annual races ave held at the latter <nd of Februaiy on the Race Course in
Wong-nai Chung Valley, at the east end of the town, a beautiful spot enclosed
by fir-clad hills. On this occasion the whole colony makes holiday, and the
stands and course are crowded with one oi the m st motley collections of humanity
to he seen in any pari of the world. Most of the races arc run with North China
ponies, and there ;s generally good sport. A regatta is held in December in the
harbour, but it does not ovoke the same enthusiasm as the r ices. Athletic Sports
are also go! up every year by the residents and the garrison, and occasional
swimming matches and boat races take place. There is an Amiteur Dramatic Club,
the members of which give several performances in the City Hall Theatre during
the season; and the Choral Society also provides a series of entertainments. In
addition to the attempts made by the colonists to provide amusements, itinerant
companies frequency visit Hongkong, and give performances.
Th re is oxeoll nt Dock accommodation for the largest vessels. The Hongkong
and Whampoa Dock Company, Limited, have three extensive establishments, two at
Kowloon, the oth r at Aberdeen. The Docks of this company are fitted with all
appliances for engine ring and carpenter’s work, and arc seldom empty. Another
large dock is in course of construction by the Company a' Kowloon in which tho
largest ironclads can bo received. There are other establishments at which shipbuilding is carried on, and 3 me good sized steamers havo been launched in the
Colony. Her Majesty’s Naval Yard likewise contains machine sheds and fi ting
shops on a large scale, and repairs cm be effected to the machinery of the British
men-of-war with great expedition.
The re are several good hotels in the Colony. They are, the Hongkong Hotel,
close to tlie Clock Tower, the Victoria Hotel, facing the Queen’s Road and the
Praya, and the Stag, in Qaian’s Rial, all of which are centrally situated.
There are three daily papers published in English : the Hongkong Daily Press,
which appears in the morning, the China Mail and the Hongkong Telegraph, issued
in the evening. There is also one fortnightly paper, which is published on
the morning of the departure of the English mail, namely, the China Overland Trade
Report (the commercial journal of the Far East). Mail issues of the Daily Press
and China Mail are published weekly. The Hongkong Catholic Register is a religious
paper published weekly. 0 Echo da China, a Portuguese journal, is issued twice a
week. The Chronicle and Directory for China, Japan, &c., appears annually, and is
printed at the Daily Press office. The China Review, which is devoted to reviews
and papers on Chinese topics, is published once every two months. The native
Press is represented by four daily papers—the Chung Ngoi San Po, which is the
oldest and most influential, published at the Daily Press Office; the Wa Tsz Yat Po,
or Chinese Mail; the Tsun Wan Yat Po, or Universal Circulating Herald, and the
W ai San Yat Po. The Government Gazette is published once a week.
•Manufactures are represented by three largo sugar refineries, the China Sugar
defining Co.’s establishment at East Point, the Lee Yuen Sugar Refinery, at Bowrington, and the Taikoo Sugar Refinery at Quarry Bay. There is also in connection
with the first-named a Distillery, where a considerable quantity of rum is manufactured. There is an Ice Factory, a large Rope Factory in Belcher’s Bay, and extensive
Glass Works are now being built in the same locality. Among t he industries pursued
by the Chinese are glass blowing, Vermillion and soy manufacture, tanning, dyeing;
beancurd, tooth-powder, match, cigar n ak ng, &c.
There are several villages on the island, the largest of which is Shau-ki Wan,
situate in a bay in the Li-ii Mun Pass. Aberdeen, on the south of the island,
possesses a well sheltered little harbour, much frequented by fishing craft. Two
large docks of the Ilor.gkeng and Whampoa Dock Company are situated there,
and add to the importance of the place. Pokfolum, on the road to Aberdeen, about
four miles from Victoria, is a place of resort for European residents in the hot
weather, and some elegant bungalows have been erecled in pleasant and picturesque
situations, commanding fine sea views and cool breezes. The sanitarium of the
French Missions is located at Pokfolum, and is a fine building with an elegant
chapel attached. Stanley, situated in a small bay on the south-east of the island,
was once the site of a military station, but the barracks were pulled down a few years
back, and the village is stagnant. There are good carriage roads from Victoria both
to Aberdeen and Shau-ki Wan, and a bridle road to Stanley. A good bridle road
leads up to the summit of Victoria Peak, with other paths branching off from it along
the adjoining hills. Within ihe past three rears the number of bungalows on and
about the Peak has increased so much that they now form quite an alpine village.
The Military erected a sanitarium on the heights in 1883; and in June, 1883, the
Peak Church was opened for worship there.
Across the harbour is the dep( ndency of British Kowloon. This peninsula was
ceded to Great Britain in 1801. it has an area cf four square miles, and Las latterly
made considerable progress. Yau-maTi, the principal village, lias increased in population, and bids fair to some day become an important town. A number of European
houses and a club have been erected and numerous gardens laid out at Tsim-tsa Tsui.
A fine praya, with a massive granite wall, has been conslructed at Tsini-tsa Tsui, and
some large godowns have been built and wharves made, for coaling purposes. An
Observatory was also completed at the et d of 1883 on Mount Elgin; and a large and
handsome Police Station for the Water Policehas been erected on an eminence just above
the new praya. A Time Hall occupies a prominent position in front of this StatL n
and is dropped daily. Steam ferries ply regularly between Kowloon and Victoria.
The total population of the Colony of Hongkong, according to the census of
1881, was 160,402, shewing an increase of 21,258 since 1876, when the preceding
census was taken. The European community was larger by 273, but this increases
was in women and children among the British, German, and Portuguese residents.
Female adult population bad decreased. The total population of the city of Vic-
toria was returned al 141,494 ; that of Kowloon at 9,021 ; of Shau-ld Wan 3,274 ; of
Aberdeen 1,305 ; and Stanley 829. The rest of the population is distributed among
the smaller villages and the "boat population other than in Yictcria harbour. The
total British and foreign population numbered 7,990, but the residents proper are
returned at 3,040, the former figures including the naval and military establishments,
police, shipping in harbour, and temporary residents. The Indians and others of
mixed blood numbered 1,722.
Hongkong formerly enjoyed a most unenviable notoriety for unhealthincss, and
in years past the troops garrisoned here undoubtedly suffered si verely. A great deal
of the sickness in the early days of the Colony was caused by excavating and otherwise disturbing the disintegrated granite of which the soil o'. the island mainly consists, and which appears to throw off malarious exhalations when upturned. At the
present time, however, the Colony is one of the healthiest spots in the world in the
same latitude, and when the ignorance of newcomers respecting the climate, the
rashness and excesses of seamen, and the squalor and the crowded condition of the
Chinese quarter of the town are considered, the mortality is by no means excessive.
New sanitary regulations were inaugurated in 1883. The annual death rate per
1,000 for the whole population in 1883 was 30.04, for the British and foreign population
17.60, or deducting non-residents 13.93. The annual average rainfall is about 80
inches, while the average annual range of the theimometer is from 43 deg. to 89 deg.
The finances of the Colony have for several years gone on improving, and the
estimated revenue for 1885 is $1,212,188, and the expenditure $1,150,801.
Hongkong is a free port, ar.d it is therefore impossible to give any return of its
imports and exports. During the year 1883 the following tonnage entered and
cleared with cargoes:—
[TABLE]
A total of 19,063 vessels, of 4,664,760 tons entered, and 20,847 vessels, of 4,591,292
tons cleared. There also <ntered in ballast 8,594 vessels, with 636,907 tons, and
cleared 6,434 vessels with 673,515 tons. The total shows an increase as compared
with the previous year of 325,434 tons. There is a steady yearly increase in the steamer
tonnage, and a corresponding falling-off in that of sailing ships.
The trade chiefly consists in opium, sugar, salt, flour, oil, cotton goods, earthenware, amber, ivory, sandalwood, betel, vegetables, granite, &c., <fcc. The bulk of the
European trade of China and Japan passes through this port.
Hongkong possesses unrivalled steam communication. The P. & O. S. N. Co. and
the M. M. Co. convey the European mail weekly, the P. M. S. S. Co. and the O. & O. S.
S. Co. maintain a mail service with San Francisco, and the E. & A. S. S. Co., the A.
C. J. & S. S. Co., and the C. N. Co. keep up a frequent but irregular se rvice with the
Australian Colonies. In addition to all these, several great lines of merchant steamers
maintain regular communication between London, Liverpool, and Hongkong, of which
the Ocean S. S. Co. and the Glen and Castle lines are the most conspicuous. The
Austro-Huugariau L'oyd’s steamers also run from Trieste to Hongkong. The N.
I. S. N. Co maintain direct monthly communication between Java and Hongkong.
Between the ports oil the east coast of China and Hongkong the steamers of the
Done la; S. S. Co. ply regularly twice a week, and there is constant steam communication with Hoihow, Manila, Saigon, Haiphong, Bangkok, <fcc. With Shanghai and the
ports of Japan there is frequent communication in addition to the English and French
mail steamers, which leave weekly. Between Hongkong, Macao, and Canton there
is a daily steam service. The telegraphic communication of the Colony extends to
nearly every part of the world.