Foochow (or Fuh-chau-fu) is the capital of the Fokien province. It is situated
in lat. 26 deg. 02 min. 24 sec. N., and long. 119. deg. 20 min. E. The city is built on
a plain on the northern side of the river Min, and is distant about thirty-four miles
from the sea, and nine miles from Pagoda Island, where foreign vessels anchor.
The attention of foreigners was early attracted to Foochow as a likely place
where commercial intercourse could be profitably carried on in the shipment of Bohea
Tea, which is grown largely in the locality. Before the port was opened, this article
fisod to be carried overland to Canton for shipment, a journey which was both long
dnd difficult. The East India Company, as early as 1830, made representations in
favour of the opening of the port, but nothing definite was done till the conclusion
Of the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. The early years of intercourse with the natives
Vrta anything but what was anticipated. The navigation of the river was difficult,
there was no market for imports, and several attacks by the populace rendered the
port an undesirable place of residence for some time. It was not until some ten
years after the port had been opened that there was much done in the export of Tea
from the interior, but since then the quantity shipped has increased so largely that
Foochow is now one of the principal tea ports in China.
The city is built around three hills, and the circuit of the walled portion is
between six and seven miles in length. The walls are about thirty feet high and
twelve feet wide at the top. The streets are narrow and filthy, but the number of
trees about the official quarter of the city, and the wooded hills enclosed by the
walls, give a picturesque appearance to the general view. Near the east gate of the
pity are several hot springs, which, like those in Japan, are used by the natives for
the cure of skin diseases and are believed to be very efficacious. The Foochow
people excel in the manufacture of miniature monuments, pagodas, dishes, &c., from
what is called “ soap stone,” and in the construction of artificial flowers, curious
figures of birds, &c. A few miles above the city tho river divides into branches,
which after pursuing separate courses for fifteen miles, unite a little above Pagoda
Anchorage. The foreign settlement stands on the northern side of the island thus
formed and which is called Nantai. Communication with the city is kept up by
means of a bridge.
The climate of Foochow is moist and enervating; it is rather warmer in summer
and cooler in winter than that of H ongkong. Frost and ice are occasionally—but
very seldom—met with here; and it is recorded that in the month of February,
1864, some two inches of snow fell upon the surrounding hills. Such an occurrence
had not been remembered for forty years before, and it certainly has not happened
since.
The scenery surrounding Foochow is very beautiful. In sailing up the river
from the sea vessels have to leave the wide stream and enter what is called the
Kimpai Pass, which is barely half-a-mile across, and enclosed as it is by bold, rocky
walls, it presents a very striking appearance. The Pass of Min-ngan is narrower, and
tvith its towering cliffs, surmounted with fortifications and cultivated terraces, is
extremely picturesque, and has been compared to some of the scenes on the Rhine.
Foreign vessels, with the exception of those of very light draught, are compelled
/o anchor at Pagoda Island, owing to the shallowness of the river, which has been
increasing of late years, and the difficulties of navigation. The limits of the port of
Foochow extend from the City Bridge to the Kimpai Pass. The Mamoi Arsenal, near
Pagoda Anchorage, was an extensive Government establishment, where several good
sized gunboats have been built, and large quantities of arms manufactured. This
Arsenal was bombarded by the French on the 23rd-24th August, 1884, and reduced to
ruins. There is a granite-floored dock at tho Anchorage owned and managed by
foreigners.
The trade of Foochow is mainly in Tea, the quantity exported in 1883 amounting
to 606,891 piculs against 679,630 piculs in 1882. Of Opium, 4,364 piculs were
imported in 1882 as against 4,225 piculs in 1882. The value of the trade of the port
for 1883 was Tls. 14,145,776; for 1882 it was Tls. 14,757,900. Tho population of
Foochow is estimated at 630,000.