This island, one of the largest' in Asia, is situated between latitude 22 and 26
degrees N., and longitude 120 and 122 degrees E., and is separated from the coast
of Fukien, China, by a channel about one hundred miles in width. It is a prolongation
of the Japanese and Loochoo Archipelagoes and in 1895 was incorporated in the Japanese empire. Its name Formosa, signifying “ beautiful island,” was conferred by
the Portuguese, the first Europeans to visit it, hut it was called Taiwan (Great
Bay) by the Chinese, to whom it belonged from 1661 to 1894. It is said that the
Japanese endeavoured to form a colony in the island in 1620, but large numbers of
Chinese were settled there prior to that date. The Dutch arrived in 1634, and founded
several settlements, and traces of their occupation are still to be found in the island,
but they were compelled in 1601 to retire by the Chinese pirate chief Koxinga, who
then assumed the sovereignty of western Formosa. His grandson and successor
however, was induced, twenty-two years later, to resign the crown to the Emperor
of China. By the treaty of Shimonoseki, which terminated the war between China
and Japan in 1895, the island was ceded to Japan as one of the terms of peace, and
on the 1st June, 1895, the formal surrender was made, the ceremony taking place on
board ship outside Kelung. The resident Chinese officials, however, declared a
republic, and offered resistance, and it was not until the end of October that the
opposing forces were completely overcome, the last stand being made in the south by
Liu Yung-fu, the Black Flag General, of Tonkin notoriety. Takow was bombarded
and captured on 15th October, and Anping was peacefully occupied on the 21st of
the same month, Liu Yung-fu having taken refuge in flight.
Formosa is about 260 miles in length, and from 60 to 70 miles broad in the widest
part. It is intersected from north to south by a range of mountains, which forms a
kind of backbone to the island, the loftiest peak of which, .Mount .Morrison (Niitakayama),
is over 13,000 feet high. On the western side of this range the slope is more gradual
than on the eastern side, and broken by fertile valleys which lose themselves in the
large undulating plain on which the Chinese are settled. The whole of the territory
•east of the dividing chain is peopled by an aboriginal race who acknowledged no
.allegiance to the Chinese Government and made frequent raids on the outlying
Chinese settlements, but they have proved themselves friendly to the Japanese. They
are a savage and warlike people, allied to the Malays and Polynesians, and live
principally by the chase. The total population of Formosa is given as 3,082,404.
The Chinese population is about 2,872,000 ; whilst 569 tribes of aborigines, described
in the returns as savages, aggregate 95,597 persons. The latest census returns give
the number of Japanese in the island as 50,944. The revenue amounts to about
20,000,000 yen a year, but for the current year a revenue of 18,849,641 yen is estimated.
The productions of Formosa are numerous, vegetation being everywhere most luxuriant,
testifying to the richness of the soil. Sugar, tea, and camphor are largely cultivated and
exported. The fauna includes hears, monkeys, deer, wild boar, badgers, martens, the
scaly ant-eater, and other smaller animals. Birds are not very numerous, and snakes are
not so common a» might he expected where vegetation is so abundant. It is believed
that the mineral wealth of the island is very considerable. The gold mining
industry is advancing rapidly. In 1902 no less than 48,400 ozs. were obtained from
the mines and alluvial washings, representing a value of £168,626. In 1903, 42,770
ounces of a value of £138,964 were exported to Japan. The gold mines and alluvial
washings are situated in the Kelung and Zuiho districts, and the industry from
¿ill accounts allows of considerable expansion. There are coal mines near Kelung and
sulphur springs also exist in the north of the island. The interior of the island is,
however, still practically unexplored. One great drawback to the island is its want of
good harbours, which is more especially felt on account of the strength of the
monsoons in the Formosa Channel. Those on the eastern side are few and neither
commodious nor accessible, while on the west coast most of the harbours are little
better than open roadsteads. Harbour improvements are now being carried out in
Keelung. Taipeh is the capital of Formosa, but Tainan-fu is the chief city in point
of population. The open ports are four in number—Takow and Tainan-fu in the
south, and Tamsui and Kelung in the north. The latter was held for some months
an 1884-5 by the French, under Admiral Courbet, but was evacuated on the 21st June,
2.885. The rivers of Formosa are few, shallow, and winding, only navigable to small
flat-bottomed boats. The scenery is delightful, and the climate is very pleasant in thewinter, but hot in some parts of the island and malarious in the wet season. There are
railways from Kelung to Hsinchiku (Teckcham) via Taihoku (Taipeh), Taihoku to Tamsui
(Hobe), and Takow to Tainan-fu. A connecting line between Hsinchiku and Tainan is
now under construction, being completed as far as Hakkokok. There are also narrow
guage tramways in several directions, and many new roadways have been opened.